---
title: Sidebar
permalink: /sidebar/
tags: sidebar
---
I am a researcher, journalist and a multi-media artist and a former engineer. My education in technology and the arts and social sciences helps me understand and benefit from the synergies of several fields, which is also reflected in most of my writings. I have been writing on issues of indigenous people, climate change, violence against women, governance, agrarian movements and I have previously worked on forest and environment related laws like the Forest Rights Act, Environmental Protection Act etc. I've been on editorial boards of community media ( Community forest rights and the pandemic: Gram Sabhas lead the way). I've written on Uttarakhand floods in 2013. Soon after, I also wrote on Muzaffarnagar riots. And for about a decade now, I have been writing and researching on stories that bring alive the human experience that’s not talked about often. My stories for human rights media organisation CJP between 2017-2019 helped in freeing incarcerated forest activist, Sokalo Gond on bail. I also wrote for an alternative media house, SabrangIndia and covered 2019 elections in India especially focusing on issues of forest rights, environment, agriculture. October 2019 onward, I worked as a researcher for IIST, University of Erasmus on new Agrarian movements in India. My stories have appeared in The Caravan, The Wire, Firstpost, Down To Earth, Mid Day, The New Indian Express, The Thirdpole etc. In February 2020 I was selected for a media bootcamp organised by Delhi based data based initiative, Land Conflict Watch with select journalists from across India. I'm part of an ongoing study on the impact of Covid-19 on indigenous communities. In 2020, I worked on several stories that highlighted the plight of indigenous people and environment across India. In a story about Van Gujjars, I highlighted the precarious conditions of their living and a particular case of atrocity on them. After my story was published, 80 year old Ghulam Mustafa, a community member was released on bail. In 2020, I was awarded with Earth Journalism Network's story grant for critical reporting on environment, climate change and their intersections with social and economic issues in the background of the Covid-19 pandemic. More recently, my story on a coal biased recovery in The Caravan on a Just transition in India was widely circulated. Currently I am also working on book chapter for two separate books, one in which I look at media bias in reporting an incident of encounter, another on forest rights and environment in a conflict area.
<br><br>
